+++
date = '2026-01-11T21:13:52-06:00'
draft = true
title = '2026: New Year New Beginnings'
+++

### An Introduction

As 2025 draws to a close and we greet the new year, I'm drawn to think about my New Year Resolutions. It sounds cliche, but I wanted to try some new things this year. I'll start by introducing myself. My name is Dylan Legendre, online I go by my gamer tag alias "MorpheusZero", and a lot of my friends just call me "Morph" for short. The name came about when I was a young teenager when I had to create my first PlayStation Profile. At the time (and still today), I was a huge fan of The Matrix movies and the name just came from that. I am currently 35 years old, a dad to a 3 year old (soon to be a dad again), a husband, and I work professionally as a Software Engineer. I graduated from Nicholls State University in 2014 with a degree in Business Administration while studying as part of the Computer Information Systems (CIS). So let's get the easy thing out of the way, I don't have a Computer Science Degree--but its because Nicholls didn't offer that at the time. So I had to work harder to get myself into programming after university.

I always knew I wanted to be a programmer. I love creating things. I know I'm going to show my age with this one, but ever since I started customizing my MySpace page, I knew I wanted to learn more about how it all worked. After school, I got my first job working with Visual Basic and MS-SQL in 2014. While I didn't love the language, it was very important in my journey to becoming the developer I am today. I was building desktop applications at the time. After a year or two, I started rewriting our desktop application in C# (pre .NET Core) and boy was it a breath of fresh air. I fell in love with the syntax and wanted to know more. After another year or two, I moved to another company. At this company, which was a large Fortune 10 company at the time--I was introduced to full stack web development. I got my start into JavaScript/TypeScript on the web--and also Java Spring Boot on the backend. Java was pretty easy for me because it was very similar to C# and came naturally to me. TS was a different beast at first. Previously I only knew very minimal JavaScript. This job introduced me to AngularJS (v1). I learned a lot here and eventually we migrated to Angular (v2+) with Typescript.

### Time To Move On

At this point in my career, I had maybe 3 or 4 years of experience with multiple languages and technologies, but I was still at an entry-level position and considered a "junior engineer" at this point. The company I worked for, "required" 5 years of experience before I was allowed to get a title promotion (and salary increase). This was a very bad way to gauge ability in my opinion. I had two main mentors up until this point that I learned a LOT from. I wasn't just "showing up" to work every day. I was actively soaking up every piece of information and learning as much as I could. I was ready for the next step--so I decided to leave that company and move on.

My next position started me with a Senior Engineer title, and my first project there was to rebuild their flagship product. The company was a small startup with about 20 employees when I joined. They had a product that was built by someone who was a self-taught programmer to solve a problem, but not much thought was put into maintainabiility. The architecture didn't scale well and it was expensive to operate. Each customer had their own DB and deployment. Pushes to production took over an hour to publish changes to 250 instances of Heroku. Most of the app views were written with JQuery. It was hard to add new features and there was no tests. There was no framework being used, each page was built slightly differently and some of the build tools were outdated and defunct. I respect the effort that went into getting the company this far and making them successful, but it was time to move on and do it better.

### Learning The Hard Way

So along with a few other devs who had joined the team--we began rebuilding the project from scratch. We opted for a more modern NodeJS stack and containerized everything for deployment into Google Cloud using Docker and K8S. I learned A LOT about what works (and what doesn't work)--the hard way. I learned about caching with Redis. I learned a lot about database indexing (with MongoDB) and writing efficient queries. I learned how to use websockets effectively and building real-time applications. Looking back now, there's things I would probably do differently with the knowledge I have now. But that's part of the journey. Its a process. You learn and you do it better the next time.

Eventually that company was acquired and I moved with that team to a larger team where I got exposed to a lot more tech and other projects. I already had experience with GCP, but here I got some experience with AWS. The teams here used PHP / Laravel / Python / MySQL, etc. I was able to get mentored by a guy who was big into Architecture and DevOps at this point. I learned a lot from him and I am still friends with him to this day. The name of the game was automation. Writing scripts and pipelines. If you have to do something manually twice, you should try to automate it. I also started learning more about security at this point and started my journey into getting more familiar with Linux and Virtual Machines. I think this was a hugely important step for my journey. I was not only designing and building applications. I was also building automated pipelines, hardening vritual machines, and learning more about networking, etc.

I stayed at that company for about 6 years. My thirst for knowledge and learning was still there--but I felt like I peaked. So again, I moved on. The current company I joined as a DevOps Engineering Manager. They were a Microsoft shop (.NET Core and C#) and had everything in MS Azure. So again I was learning a new cloud provider. After a year or so, I accepted a promotion as Director of Engineering. I am now leading a team and I am still learning as I go.

### So About That Resolution

In my free time, I've been dabbling in new languages (like Go). I also like to watch anime and read fantasy novels. One of the things I wanted to improve with my skill set in 2026, is improve my writing skills. I like to read and I know how to write--but I wouldn't consider myself good at it. So in 2026, I have challeneged myself to start a new blog where I will write about technical things that interest me. That could include languages, patterns, and frameworks that I want to try and learn more about and writing about how I like them or what I build with them. It could also include video games I play where I disect the technologies that were used and how its applicable in my career, etc. This will be largely unstructured at first, but I want to expose myself to some cool new ways of thinking and approaching problems. In this line of work, we write things a lot. Whether its an email, code, or writing updates in a Slack channel--we write a lot. I want to improve my writing skills.

### The Actual Goal

So with that, my actual goal for 2026 is to publish at least 1 article to this blog per month. It should be something with substance and not simply a one paragraph piece of writing. I am using Hugo to publish this blog on a free Github hosted page. I am using Cloudflare for my domain. I will probably post the articles on Reddit or other places to get some views, but my overall goal is not simply views, but simply to improve my writing skills. So if you made it this far, first--thanks for reading and following along. Second, if you want to reach out and follow me on any socials, feel free to send me any and all questions. I would love to have a discussion and learn more about you and how we can help each other.
